Adds documentation for DevTools experiments (#756)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/experimental-features.md

---
description: The latest experimental features in Edge DevTools
title: Experimental features
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.date: 06/17/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
keywords: microsoft edge, web development, f12 tools, devtools, experiment
---

# Experimental features  

The Edge DevTools periodically offers experimental features that are released while still in development.  By enabling an experiment, you are able to test and [provide early feedback](#providing-feedback-on-experimental-features) on these features before being released broadly.  

Experiments are available in all channels of Microsoft Edge.  Use the Microsoft Edge Canary channel to get the very latest experiments.  

## How to enable experiments  

To enable an experiment.  

1.  Open DevTools.  

>     *   Press `Control`+`Shift`+`I` on Windows or `Command`+`Option`+`I`  on macOS.  

Author: ```suggestion
    *   Press `F12`.
```

1.  Open **Settings**.  
    *   Select the gear icon at the top-right corner.  
    *   Press `F1`.  
1.  On the left side of the **Settings** panel, there is a tab named **Experiments**.  Select the tab to see all available experiments.  
    
    :::image type="complex" source="./media/experiments-devtools.png" alt-text="List of experiments in DevTools Settings" lightbox="./media/experiments-devtools.png":::
       List of experiments in DevTools Settings  
    :::image-end:::  
    
1.  Select the checkboxes next to experiments you would like to try.  
1.  Close and reopen DevTools.  

> [!NOTE]
> Some experimental features are "works in progress" and may cause performance issues.  To remove an experiment, de-select the checkbox next to the experiment and reloading the DevTools again.  

> ## Current experimental features  

Author: ```suggestion
## Selected experimental features  
```

| Experiment | Stable Channel | Experimentation | Additional information |  
|:--- |:--- |:--- |:--- |  
| [Enable new CSS grid debugging features](#enable-new-css-grid-debugging-features) | Edge v85 |  |  |  
| [Enable support to move tabs between panels](#enable-support-to-move-tabs-between-panels) | Edge v85 |  |  |  
| [Enable webhint](#enable-webhint) | Edge v85 |  |  |  

> | [3D View][3DView] | Edge v83 |  | On by default. |  

Author: ```suggestion
```

> | [3D View][3DView] | Edge v83 |  | On by default. |  

Author: ```suggestion
| Experiment | Edge version
|:--- |:---
| [Enable new CSS grid debugging features](#enable-new-css-grid-debugging-features) | Edge 85 and up |  
| [Enable support to move tabs between panels](#enable-support-to-move-tabs-between-panels) | Edge 85 and up | 
| [Enable webhint](#enable-webhint) | Edge 85 and up | 
```

   Moving tabs between panels  
:::image-end:::  

The bottom panel may be hidden and shown by pressing `Ctrl`+`` ` ``.  

<!--Available in Microsoft Edge version 85 and later.  -->  

### Enable webhint  

[webhint][WebhintMain] is an open-source tool that surfaces real-time feedback on the accessibility, cross-browser compatibility, security, performance, PWAs, and other common web development issues of a website.  Enabling this experiment brings webhint feedback directly into DevTools using the [Issues panel][Issues].  

:::image type="complex" source="./media/experiments-webhint.png" alt-text="webhint feedback in the Issues panel" lightbox="./media/experiments-webhint.png":::
   webhint feedback in the Issues panel  
:::image-end:::  

Select the issue to see documentation on how to fix the issue as well as a list of affected resources.  Selecting a resource link opens the relevant **Network**, **Sources**, or **Elements** pane in DevTools.  

<!--Available in Microsoft Edge version 85 and later.  -->  

## Previous experimental features  

*   [3D View][3DView], now on by default as of Microsoft Edge version 83.  

## Providing feedback on experimental features  

> To provide feedback on Edge DevTools experiments, or anything else related to DevTools. 

Author: ```suggestion
To provide feedback on Edge DevTools experiments, or anything else related to DevTools:
```

*   Send your feedback using the Feedback icon in the DevTools  
*   Tweet at [@EdgeDevTools][TwitterEdgedevtools]  

> 

Author: ```suggestion

:::image type="complex" source="./media/devtools-feedback.png" alt-text="Feedback icon in the Edge DevTools" lightbox="./media/devtools-feedback.png":::
   Feedback icon in the Edge DevTools
:::image-end:::
```

Experiments are available in all channels of Microsoft Edge.  Use the Microsoft Edge Canary channel to get the very latest experiments.  

## How to enable experiments  

To enable an experiment.  

1.  Open DevTools.  
    *   Press `F12`.
1.  Open **Settings**.  
    *   Select the gear icon at the top-right corner.  
    *   Press `F1`.  
1.  On the left side of the **Settings** panel, there is a tab named **Experiments**.  Select the tab to see all available experiments.  
    
    :::image type="complex" source="./media/experiments-devtools.png" alt-text="List of experiments in DevTools Settings" lightbox="./media/experiments-devtools.png":::
       List of experiments in DevTools Settings  
    :::image-end:::  
    
1.  Select the checkboxes next to experiments you would like to try.  
1.  Close and reopen DevTools.  

> [!NOTE]
> Some experimental features are "works in progress" and may cause performance issues.  To remove an experiment, de-select the checkbox next to the experiment and reloading the DevTools again.  

## Selected experimental features  

> | Experiment | Stable Channel | Experimentation | Additional information |  
> |:--- |:--- |:--- |:--- |  
> | [Enable new CSS grid debugging features](#enable-new-css-grid-debugging-features) | Edge v85 |  |  |  
> | [Enable support to move tabs between panels](#enable-support-to-move-tabs-between-panels) | Edge v85 |  |  |  
> | [Enable webhint](#enable-webhint) | Edge v85 |  |  |  

Author: ```suggestion
| Experiment | Edge version
|:--- |:--- | 
| [Enable new CSS grid debugging features](#enable-new-css-grid-debugging-features) | 85 and up 
| [Enable support to move tabs between panels](#enable-support-to-move-tabs-between-panels) | 85 and up
| [Enable webhint](#enable-webhint) | 85 and up
```

---
description: The latest experimental features in Edge DevTools
title: Experimental features
author: hxlnt
ms.author: raweil
ms.date: 06/15/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
keywords: microsoft edge, web development, f12 tools, devtools, experiment
---

# Experimental features

The Edge DevTools periodically offers experimental features that are released while still in development. By enabling an experiment, you are able to test and [provide early feedback](#Providing-feedback-on-experimental-features) on these features before they are released broadly.

> Experiments are available in all channels of Edge. Use the Edge Canary channel to get the very latest experiments.

Reviewer: Do we want to address Chromium experiments in any way? (Not sure if it's important, but customers may notice we're only documenting a subset of what shows up in the experiments settings tab)

Author: I would vote to:
1. Rename "Current experimental features" heading to "Selected experimental features" to denote that we're highlighting a subset.
2. At a later time, consider going back and filling in content on some of the older experiments. (There are 30+ experiments, and there might be considerable research to add them all in one go.)

Author: Thoughts?

## How to enable experiments

> To enable an experiment, open DevTools by pressing `Control+Shift+I` (Windows) or `Command+Option+I` (macOS). Then, open Settings by clicking the gear icon at the top right of DevTools or by pressing `F1`.

Reviewer: We know F12 is the most-used shortcut, should we consider referencing that shortcut or did we choose these others for a reason?

Author: Sounds good; will add F12! These were chosen only because these are the shortcuts referenced in the ["Open Edge DevTools" doc](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/open). May be worth updating that one as well.

> To enable an experiment, open DevTools by pressing `Control+Shift+I` (Windows) or `Command+Option+I` (macOS). Then, open Settings by clicking the gear icon at the top right of DevTools or by pressing `F1`.

Author: ```suggestion
To enable an experiment, open DevTools by pressing `F12`. Then, open Settings by clicking the gear icon at the top right of DevTools or by pressing `F1`.
```

On the left side of the Settings panel, there is a tab called "Experiments." Click this tab to see all available experiments. Select the checkboxes next to experiments you would like to try, then close and reopen the DevTools.

> ![List of experiments in DevTools Settings](./media/experiments-devtools.png)

Reviewer: The picture is a bit big/zoomed in (looks a bit grainy on my screen). Would be great to get a smaller/clearer version.

Author: I think the image is enlarged in the GitHub preview. It looks OK on the actual docs page embed.

Note that some experimental features are works in progress and may cause performance issues. You can remove an experiment by unchecking the box next to that experiment and reloading the DevTools as before.

## Current experimental features

> The following sections outline some of the experimental features available in Edge now.

Reviewer: Ideally we'll outline all experiments, so could strike the "some" from this

Author: See above comment.

### "Enable new CSS grid debugging features"

This feature offers improved on-page visualizations for websites using CSS grid layouts.

> ![CSS grid debugging feature](./media/experiments-grid.png)

Reviewer: For this screenshot, could we show the tools opened too or does it not show well given screen real estate? (also wondering if like the screenshot below we could show more content and less of the URL bar).

Author: I tried a few different crops, but I think this one gives the overlays the best visibility for now without the image being too blurry or hard to read. (I'd actually like to update this image entirely once some of the new features land, so I'd consider it temporary anyway.)

This experiment is available in Edge 85 and later.

> ### "Enable support to move tabs between panels"

Reviewer: Could be a nit, but why the quotes around the title?

Author: See comment below.

> Normally, tools such as Elements and Network can only be open in the main (top) panel of DevTools. Likewise, tools such as 3D View and Issues can only be open in the drawer (bottom) panel of DevTools. However, when this experiment is enabled, you are able to move tools between the top and bottoms panels by right-clicking the tab and choosing "Move to top" or "Move to bottom." This allows you to better customize your DevTools layout.

Reviewer: Would be great to call out that keyboard can (assumedly) be used here, as well.

Author: Joe updated text to refer to context menu.

![Moving tabs between panels](./media/experiments-move-panels.png)

The bottom panel can be hidden and shown by pressing ``Ctrl + ` ``.

This experiment is available in Edge 85 and later.

> ### "Enable webhint"

Reviewer: Could we expand on what this experiment is named in the tools? "Enable webhint" is ambiguous...would be great to communicate where webhint would surface, like "Enable webhint suggestions in the Issues panel".

Author: Initially, I had more "friendly" titles here, but I realized that it's hard to locate the experiment in Settings unless you know exactly what it's called because there are so many experiments. The quotemarks around the title were meant to denote that it's the name of the setting rather than a description of it, enabling you to find it easily.

[webhint](https://webhint.io) is an open-source tool that surfaces real-time feedback on a website's accessibility, cross-browser compatibility, security, performance, PWAs, and other common web development issues. Enabling this experiment brings webhint feedback directly into DevTools via the [Issues panel](./Issues).

![webhint feedback in the Issues panel](./media/experiments-webhint.png)

Click the issue to see documentation on how to fix the issue as well as a list of affected resources. Clicking on a resource link will open the relevant Network, Sources, or Elements pane in DevTools. 

This experiment is available in Edge 85 and later.

## Previous experimental features

 - [3D View](3D-view), now on by default as of Edge 83.

## Providing feedback on experimental features

To provide feedback on Edge DevTools experiments, or anything else related to DevTools:

>   - Send your feedback using the Feedback icon in the DevTools

Reviewer: Could we inline a screen clipping of the feedback icon?

Author: Sure! I'll reuse the one on our What's New page.

---
description: The latest experimental features in Edge DevTools
title: Experimental features
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.date: 06/17/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
keywords: microsoft edge, web development, f12 tools, devtools, experiment
---

# Experimental features  

The Edge DevTools periodically offers experimental features that are released while still in development.  By enabling an experiment, you are able to test and [provide early feedback](#providing-feedback-on-experimental-features) on these features before being released broadly.  

Experiments are available in all channels of Microsoft Edge.  Use the Microsoft Edge Canary channel to get the very latest experiments.  

## How to enable experiments  

To enable an experiment.  

1.  Open DevTools.  

>     *   Press `Control`+`Shift`+`I` on Windows or `Command`+`Option`+`I`  on macOS.  

Author: ```suggestion
    *   Press `F12` to open DevTools. Alternatively, you can press `Control`+`Shift`+`I` on Windows or `Command`+`Option`+`I`  on macOS.  
```

title: Experimental features
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.date: 06/25/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
keywords: microsoft edge, web development, f12 tools, devtools, experiment
---

# Experimental features  

You may use the experimental features that are still under development in the Microsoft Edge DevTools to test and [provide feedback](#providing-feedback-on-experimental-features) before each is released broadly.  

While experimental features are available in all channels of Microsoft Edge, you may get the latest experimental features using the Microsoft Edge Canary channel.  

## Turn on experimental features  

To select a experimental feature to use in Microsoft Edge, use the following steps.  

1.  [Open DevTools][DevtoolsOpen].  
    *   Press `F12`.  
1.  Open **Settings**.  
    *   Select the gear icon at the top-right corner.  
    *   Press `F1`.  

>     *   Press `Shift`+`?`.  

Reviewer 2: The Open DevTools page is where the "Open Devtools" content  lives for all of the other DevTools pages.  
If specifying `F12` is a sticking point, then the Open DevTools page should be updated.

>     *   Press `Shift`+`?`.  

Author: I think Reeza's comment was about the three options under "Open Settings." These are three ways to do the same thing, not three sequential steps.

>     *   Press `Shift`+`?`.  

Reviewer 2: Updated.

1.  On the left side of the **Settings** panel, select the **Experiments** section.    
    
    :::image type="complex" source="./media/experiments-devtools.png" alt-text="List of experiments in DevTools Settings" lightbox="./media/experiments-devtools.png":::
       List of experiments in DevTools Settings  
    :::image-end:::  
    
1.  On the **Experiments** page, scroll through the list of all available experimental features and select the checkbox next to each features that you want to test.  
1.  Close and reopen Microsoft Edge DevTools.  

> [!NOTE]

> > Experimental features are constantly being updated and may cause performance issues.  To turn off an experimental feature, open the **Experiments** page and remove the checkbox of the experimental feature you want to turn off.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Experimental features are constantly being updated and may cause performance issues.  To turn off an experimental feature, open the **Experiments** page and clear the checkbox of the experimental feature that you want to turn off.  
```

### Enable support to move tabs between panels  

> Normally, tools such as **Elements** and **Network** may only be opened in the main \(top\) panel of DevTools.  Similarly, tools such as **3D View** and **Issues** may only opened in the drawer \(bottom\) panel of DevTools.  After activation, you may move tools between the top and bottom panels by hovering on the tab, opening the contextual menu \(right-click\), and selecting **Move to top** or **Move to bottom**.   After activation, you are also able to better customize your DevTools layout.  To show or hide the bottom panel, press `Escape`.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Normally, tools such as **Elements** and **Network** may only be opened in the main \(top\) panel of DevTools.  Similarly, tools such as **3D View** and **Issues** may only be opened in the drawer \(bottom\) panel of DevTools.  When this experiment is selected, you may move tools between the top and bottom panels by hovering on the tab, opening the contextual menu \(right-click\), and selecting **Move to top** or **Move to bottom**.   This experiment allows you to customize your DevTools layout.  To show or hide the bottom panel, press `Escape`.  
```

### Enable webhint  

> [webhint][WebhintMain] is an open-source tool that provides real-time feedback on the accessibility, cross-browser compatibility, security, performance, PWAs, and other common web development issues of websites.  After activation, the webhint feedback is brought into DevTools in the [Issues panel][DevtoolsIssues].  You may select the issue to see documentation on how to fix the issue and a list of the affected resources on your website.  Select a resource link to open the relevant **Network**, **Sources**, or **Elements** pane in DevTools.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[webhint][WebhintMain] is an open-source tool that provides real-time feedback on the accessibility, cross-browser compatibility, security, performance, PWAs, and other common web development issues of websites.  This experiment brings the webhint feedback into DevTools in the [Issues panel][DevtoolsIssues].  You may select the issue to see documentation on how to fix the issue and a list of the affected resources on your website.  Select a resource link to open the relevant **Network**, **Sources**, or **Elements** pane in DevTools.  
```
